.. _changelog:


Changelog
=========

This document lists changes between released versions of
``django-registration``.

Version numbering
-----------------

``django-registration`` uses "DjangoVer", a version number system based on the
corresponding supported Django versions. The format of a
``django-registration`` version number is ``A.B.C``, where ``A.B`` is the
version number of the latest Django feature release supported by that version
of ``django-registration``, and ``C`` is an incrementing value for releases of
``django-registration`` paired to that Django feature release.

The policy of ``django-registration`` is to support the Django feature release
indicated in the version number, along with any other lower-numbered Django
feature releases receiving support from the Django project at the time of
release.

For example, consider a hypothetical ``django-registration`` version
5.0.2. This indicates that the most recent supported Django feature release is
5.0, and that it is the third release of ``django-registration`` to support
Django 5.0 (after 5.0.0 and 5.0.1). Since the Django project at the time was
supporting Django 5.0 and 4.2, that version of ``django-registration`` would
also support Django 5.0 and 4.2.


API stability and deprecations
------------------------------

The API stability/deprecation policy for ``django-registration`` is as follows:

* The supported stable public API is the set of symbols which are documented in
  this documentation. For classes, the supported stable public API is the set
  of methods and attributes of those classes whose names do not begin with one
  or more underscore (``_``) characters and which are documented in this
  documentation.

* When a public API is to be removed, or undergo a backwards-incompatible
  change, it will emit a deprecation warning which serves as notice of the
  intended removal or change. This warning will be emitted for at least two
  releases, after which the removal or change may occur without further
  warning. This is different from Django's own deprecation policy, which avoids
  completing a removal/change in "LTS"-designated releases. Since
  ``django-registration`` does not have "LTS" releases, it does not need that
  exception.

* Security fixes, and fixes for high-severity bugs (such as those which might
  cause unrecoverable crash or data loss), are not required to emit deprecation
  warnings, and may -- if needed -- impose backwards-incompatible change in any
  release. If this occurs, this changelog document will contain a note
  explaining why the usual deprecation process could not be followed for that
  case.

* This policy is in effect as of the adoption of "DjangoVer" versioning, with
  version 5.0.0 of ``django-registration``.


Releases under DjangoVer
------------------------

Version 5.2.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released April 2025

* Correct a packaging error with 5.2.0.


Version 5.2.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released April 2025

* Supported Django versions are now 4.2, 5.1, and 5.2.


Version 5.1.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released November 2024

* Adopted "DjangoVer" versioning.

* Supported Django versions are now 4.2, 5.0, and 5.1.

* Supported Python versions are now 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12, and 3.13.

* The base :class:`~django_registration.forms.RegistrationForm` has been
  completely rewritten, though in a backwards-compatible way. It is no longer a
  subclass of Django's ``UserCreationForm``, which means it is far more
  flexible with respect to custom user models (and for many cases, no longer
  requires a custom form subclass just to handle a custom user model).

* :class:`~django_registration.views.ActivationView` has also been rewritten,
  and with it parts of :ref:`the built-in activation-based workflow
  <activation-workflow>`. The primary change here is that ``ActivationView``
  now only attempts to activate the user account on an HTTP ``POST`` request
  (previously it would do so on ``GET``, which was increasingly unsafe due to
  email clients auto-following links). This is backwards-incompatible: the
  activation view now displays a form on ``GET``, and the templates involved
  have changed. See :ref:`the template documentation <default-templates>` for
  details of the required templates.


Releases preceding DjangoVer
----------------------------

Version 3.4
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released July 2023

* The :ref:`reserved names list <reserved-names>` has a new entry: ``"xrpc"``,
  which is used in domain-ownership verification by Bluesky/AT protocol.

* Validation of the email field in registration forms no longer applies
  Django's default email validator, instead applying only ``django-registration``'s
  :class:`~django_registration.validators.HTML5EmailValidator` and
  :func:`~django_registration.validators.validate_confusables_email`. Since
  ``django-registration``'s validators are significantly stricter, this does not
  actually change the set of email addresses which will be accepted; all it
  does is prevent a duplicate error message displaying when both the default
  Django validator and the ``django-registration`` validators reject the email
  address. See `GitHub issue #238
  <https://github.com/ubernostrum/django-registration/issues/238>`_.

* The supported Python and Django versions are changed to: Django 3.2, 4.1, and
  4.2, on Python 3.7 (Django 3.2 only), 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, and 3.11 (Django 4.1
  and 4.2 only).


Version 3.3
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released May 2022

This release contains no new features or bugfixes. The supported Python and
Django versions are changed to:

* Django 3.2 and 4.0, on Python 3.7 (Django 3.2 only), 3.8, 3.9, and 3.10.


Version 3.2
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released June 2021

This release contains no new features or bugfixes. The supported Python and
Django versions are changed to:

* Django 2.2, 3.1, and 3.2, on Python 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, and 3.9.

Python 3.5 reached the end of its upstream support cycle in September 2020, and
is no longer supported. Django 3.0 reached the end of its upstream support
cycle in May 2021, and is no longer supported.


Version 3.1.2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released March 2021

This release fixes a security issue with low severity.

Prior to 3.1.2, ``django-registration`` did not apply Django's
:func:`~django.views.decorators.debug.sensitive_post_parameters` decorator to
the base :class:`~django_registration.views.RegistrationView`. This meant that
if detailed error reports, such as `Django's error reports emailed to site
staff
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/howto/error-reporting/#email-reports>`_,
were enabled, and a server-side error occurred during account registration, the
generated error report would include all fields submitted in the HTTP request,
some of which are potentially sensitive depending on the user-account model and
registration workflow in use.

This issue is CVE-2021-21416 and GitHub security advisory GHSA-58c7-px5v-82hh.

Thanks to Martin Morgenstern for reporting this issue.


Version 3.1
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released January 2020

* When an attempt was made to use ``django-registration`` with a custom user
  model, but *without* explicitly subclassing
  :class:`~django_registration.forms.RegistrationForm` to point to that user
  model, previously the result would be a cryptic exception and error message
  raised from within Django, complaining about trying to work with the
  swapped-out user model. :class:`~django_registration.views.RegistrationView`
  now explicitly raises :exc:`~django.core.exceptions.ImproperlyConfigured`
  with an informative error message to make it clear what has happened, and
  directs the developer to the documentation for using custom user models in
  ``django-registration``.

* A new validator,
  :class:`~django_registration.validators.HTML5EmailValidator`, is included and
  is applied by default to the email field of
  :class:`~django_registration.forms.RegistrationForm`. The HTML5 email address
  grammar is more restrictive than the RFC grammar, but primarily in
  disallowing rare and problematic features.

* Support for Python 2 was dropped, as Python 2 is EOL as of 2020-01-01. As a
  result, support for Django 1.11 (EOL April 2020) was also dropped; the
  minimum supported Django version is now 2.2.


Version 3.0.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Released May 2019

* The :ref:`custom validators <validators>` are now serializable.

* Although no code changes were required, this release officially marks itself
  compatible with Python 3.7 and with django 2.2.


Version 3.0
~~~~~~~~~~~

Released September 2018

This was a major, backwards-incompatible rewrite of ``django-registration``.

* Module renaming: Prior to 3.x, ``django-registration`` installed a Python
  module named ``registration``. To avoid silent incompatibilities, and to
  conform to more recent best practices, ``django-registration`` 3.x now
  installs a module named ``django_registration``. Attempts to import from the
  ``registration`` module will immediately fail with :exc:`ImportError`.

  Many installations will be able to adapt by replacing references to
  ``registration`` with references to ``django_registration``.

* Removal of model-based workflow: The two-step model-based signup workflow,
  which has been present since the first public release of
  ``django-registration`` in 2007, has now been removed. In its place, it is
  recommended that you use :ref:`the two-step activation workflow
  <activation-workflow>` instead, as that workflow requires no server-side
  storage of additional data beyond the user account itself.

* Renaming of two-step activation workflow: :ref:`The two-step activation
  workflow <activation-workflow>` was previously found at
  ``registration.backends.hmac``; it has been renamed and is now found at
  ``registration.backends.activation``.

* Renaming of one-step workflow: :ref:`The one-step workflow
  <one-step-workflow>` was previously found at
  ``registration.backends.simple``; it has been renamed and is now found at
  ``registration.backends.one_step``.

* Removal of auth URLs: Prior to 3.x, ``django-registration``'s default URLconf
  modules for its built-in workflows would attempt to include the Django auth
  views (login, logout, password reset, etc.) for you. This became untenable
  with the rewrite of Django's auth views to be class-based, as it required
  detecting the set of auth views and choosing a set of URL patterns at
  runtime.

  As a result, auth views are no longer automatically configured for you; if
  you want them, :func:`~django.urls.include` the URLconf
  ``django.contrib.auth.urls`` at a location of your choosing.

* Distinguishing activation failure conditions: Prior to 3.x, failures to
  activate a user account (in workflows which use activation) all simply
  returned :data:`None` in place of the activated account. This meant it was
  not possible to determine, from inspecting the result, what exactly caused
  the failure.

  In ``django-registration`` 3.x, activation failures raise an exception --
  :exc:`~django_registration.exceptions.ActivationError` -- with a message and
  code (such as ``"expired"``), to indicate the cause of failure. This
  exception is caught by :class:`~django_registration.views.ActivationView` and
  turned into the template context variable ``activation_error``.

* Changes to custom user support: Support for custom user models has been
  brought more in line with the features Django offers. This affects
  compatibility of custom user models with ``django-registration``'s default
  forms and views. In particular, custom user models should now provide, in
  addition to :attr:`~django.contrib.auth.CustomUser.USERNAME_FIELD`, the
  :meth:`~django.contrib.auth.models.AbstractBaseUser.get_username` and
  :meth:`~django.contrib.auth.models.AbstractBaseUser.get_email_field_name`
  methods. See :ref:`the custom user documentation <custom-user>` for details.

* Changes to ``success_url``: Both the registration and activation views mimic
  Django's own generic views in supporting a choice of ways to specify where to
  redirect after a successful registration or activation; you can either set
  the attribute :attr:`~django_registration.views.RegistrationView.success_url`
  on the view class, or implement the method
  :meth:`~django_registration.views.RegistrationView.get_success_url`
  . However, there is a key difference between the base Django generic-view
  version of this, and the version in ``django-registration``: when calling a
  :meth:`~django_registration.views.RegistrationView.get_success_url` method,
  ``django-registration`` passes the user account as an argument.

  This is incompatible with the behavior of Django's base
  :class:`~django.views.generic.edit.FormMixin`, which expects
  :meth:`~django.views.generic.edit.FormMixin.get_success_url` to take zero
  arguments.

  Also, earlier versions of ``django-registration`` allowed
  :attr:`~django_registration.views.RegistrationView.success_url` and
  :meth:`~django_registration.views.RegistrationView.get_success_url` to
  provide either a string URL, or a tuple of ``(viewname, args, kwargs)`` to
  pass to Django's :func:`~django.urls.reverse` helper, in order to work around
  issues caused by calling :func:`~django.urls.reverse` at the level of a class
  attribute.

  In ``django-registration`` 3.x, the ``user`` argument to
  :meth:`~django_registration.views.RegistrationView.get_success_url` is now
  optional, meaning :class:`~django.views.generic.edit.FormMixin`'s default
  behavior is now compatible with any
  :meth:`~django_registration.views.RegistrationView.get_success_url`
  implementation that doesn't require the user object; as a result,
  implementations which don't rely on the user object should either switch to
  specifying :attr:`~django_registration.views.RegistrationView.success_url` as
  an attribute, or change their own signature to ``get_success_url(self,
  user=None)``.

  Also, the ability to supply the 3-tuple of arguments for
  :func:`~django.urls.reverse` has been removed; both
  :attr:`~django_registration.views.RegistrationView.success_url` and
  :meth:`~django_registration.views.RegistrationView.get_success_url` now
  *must* be/return either a string, or a lazy object that resolves to a
  string. To avoid class-level calls to :func:`~django.urls.reverse`, use
  ``django.urls.reverse_lazy()`` instead.

* Removed "no free email" form: Earlier versions of ``django-registration``
  included a form class, ``RegistrationFormNoFreeEmail``, which attempted to
  forbid user signups using common free/throwaway email providers. Since this
  is a pointless task (the number of possible domains of such providers is
  ever-growing), this form class has been removed.

* Template names: Since ``django-registration``'s Python module has been
  renamed from ``registration`` to ``django_registration``, its default
  template folder has also been renamed, from ``registration`` to
  ``django_registration``. Additionally, the following templates have undergone
  name changes:

  * The default template name for the body of the activation email in the
    two-step activation workflow is now
    ``django_registration/activation_email_body.txt`` (previously, it was
    ``registration/activation_email.txt``)

  * The default template name for
    :class:`~django_registration.views.ActivationView` and its subclasses is
    now ``django_registration/activation_failed.html`` (previously, it was
    ``registration/activate.html``).

* Renaming of URL patterns: Prior to 3.x, ``django-registration``'s included
  URLconf modules provided URL pattern names beginning with
  ``"registration"``. For example: ``"registration_register"``. In 3.x, these
  are all renamed to begin with ``"django_registration"``. For example:
  ``"django_registration_register"``.

* Removal of ``cleanupregistration`` management command: The
  "cleanupregistration" management command, and the
  RegistrationProfile.objects.delete_expired_users() and
  RegistrationProfile.objects.expired() methods, were removed in
  ``django-registration`` 3.0.  Deployments which need a way to identify and
  delete expired accounts should determine how they wish to do so and implement
  their own methods for this.

* Other changes: The URLconf ``registration.urls`` has been removed; it was an
  alias for the URLconf of the model-based workflow, which has also been
  removed. The compatibility alias ``registration.backends.default``, which
  also pointed to the model-based workflow, has been removed.


Pre-3.0 releases
----------------

One major change occurred between ``django-registration`` 2.0 and 2.1: the
addition in version 2.1 of the
:class:`~django_registration.validators.ReservedNameValidator`, which is now
used by default on :class:`~django_registration.forms.RegistrationForm` and its
subclasses.

This is technically backwards-incompatible, since a set of usernames which
previously could be registered now cannot be registered, but was included
because the security benefits outweigh the edge cases of the now-disallowed
usernames. If you need to allow users to register with usernames forbidden by
this validator, see its documentation for notes on how to customize or disable
it.

In 2.2, the behavior of the ``RegistrationProfile.expired()`` method was
clarified to accommodate user expectations; it does *not* return (and thus,
``RegistrationProfile.delete_expired_users()`` does not delete) profiles of
users who had successfully activated.

In ``django-registration`` 2.3, the new validators
:func:`~django_registration.validators.validate_confusables` and
:func:`~django_registration.validators.validate_confusables_email` were added,
and applied by default to the username field and email field, respectively, of
registration forms. This may cause some usernames which previously were
accepted to no longer be accepted, but like the reserved-name validator this
change was made because its security benefits significantly outweigh the edge
cases in which it might disallow an otherwise-acceptable username or email
address. If for some reason you need to allow registration with usernames or
email addresses containing potentially dangerous use of Unicode, you can
subclass the registration form and remove these validators, though doing so is
not recommended.

A 1.0 release of ``django-registration`` existed, but the 2.x series was compatible
with it.

Prior to 1.0, the most widely-adopted version of ``django-registration`` was
0.8; the changes from 0.8 to 2.x were large and significant, and if any
installations on 0.8 still exist and wish to upgrade to more recent versions,
it is likely the most effective route will be to discard all code using 0.8 and
start over from scratch with a 3.x release.
